AI_README.md, before:

This AI_README.md file provides project information specifically for use in LLM context. The README.md will contain project information that is more generally useful for humans and AI.

# CONVENTIONS

- Prefer a home-manager module over a system module if one is available

# DEPENDENCIES 

This section documents select project dependencies. Each dependency below lists where you can find relevant documentation / information. When authoring a change that involves a given dependency, you should use the links below to look up additional context if needed.

## Impermanence

This is a Nix module that let's you define which file system directories should be persisted (assuming you have a root partition that is wiped every reboot)

Documentation: https://github.com/nix-community/impermanence/README.org

## Disko

This is a Nix module that let's you define your filesystem partitioning / configuration with Nix. This project only runs disko on initial installation, however, any future changes are reflected in Disko. If editing a disko.nix file, you should also generate a patch script that makes the same edits imperatively.

Documentation Index: https://github.com/nix-community/disko/blob/master/docs/INDEX.md
Example Implementations: https://github.com/nix-community/disko/tree/master/example

# COMMANDS 

This section documents a list of commands that you should be prepared to run if necessary. The section is broken down by the programming language, and then the purpose of the command (linting, testing, running) 

## Nix

### Linting

`nix flake check -L` - This command is used to check the validity of a nix flake. It should be run on request to check the validity of a project with a `flake.nix` file.

Commit message:

chore(ai): Add nixfmt documentation and enable in AI config

AI_README.md, after:

This AI_README.md file provides project information specifically for use in LLM context. The README.md will contain project information that is more generally useful for humans and AI.

# CONVENTIONS

- Prefer a home-manager module over a system module if one is available

# DEPENDENCIES 

This section documents select project dependencies. Each dependency below lists where you can find relevant documentation / information. When authoring a change that involves a given dependency, you should use the links below to look up additional context if needed.

## Impermanence

This is a Nix module that let's you define which file system directories should be persisted (assuming you have a root partition that is wiped every reboot)

Documentation: https://github.com/nix-community/impermanence/README.org

## Disko

This is a Nix module that let's you define your filesystem partitioning / configuration with Nix. This project only runs disko on initial installation, however, any future changes are reflected in Disko. If editing a disko.nix file, you should also generate a patch script that makes the same edits imperatively.

Documentation Index: https://github.com/nix-community/disko/blob/master/docs/INDEX.md
Example Implementations: https://github.com/nix-community/disko/tree/master/example

# COMMANDS 

This section documents a list of commands that you should be prepared to run if necessary. The section is broken down by the programming language, and then the purpose of the command (linting, testing, running) 

## Nix

### Linting

- `nix flake check -L`: This command is used to check the validity of a nix flake. It should be run on request to check the validity of a project with a `flake.nix` file. 
- `nixfmt <file>`: This command formats a file. It should be run following any edits
